<doc^docid="seattletimes.nwsource.com.3865.txt"^date="20110711">

 Less than two weeks before some training camps are scheduled to open, the league remains in labor limbo, with only the lawyers for both sides meeting.

Attorneys met Monday in New York to clarify language from previous discussions, and will do so again Tuesday. Originally, owners and players were to get together for more negotiations Tuesday, but aren't expected to do so before Wednesday.

Several issues reportedly are close to resolution, the most significant being the split of total revenues between owners and players.

But snags involving a rookie wage scale, free-agency rules and benefits for retired players have slowed the process. While the league's negotiators hope they can present a new collective-bargaining agreement to the owners at their July 21 meeting in Atlanta, not striking a deal before then figures to cause postponement of the start of some training camps, and perhaps cancellation of the Hall of Fame Game Aug. 7 in Canton, Ohio.

The St. Louis Rams and Chicago Bears are set to play in that exhibition, and both teams planned to open training camp at the end of next week.

The NFL would need about a week to get the new deal ratified and in place, meaning teams couldn't start signing free agents or draftees, make trades or begin workouts until the end of the month. That would jeopardize the first weekend of exhibition games, Aug. 11-15, at a cost exceeding $60 million in overall revenues.

Commissioner Roger Goodell and several owners will negotiate with NFLPA executive director DeMaurice Smith and members of the players' executive board later this week. Extensive negotiations last Thursday and Friday seemed promising, but the parties were unable to close the gap on the issue of the rookie wage scale.

Notes.

- Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Hines Ward had glassy, bloodshot eyes and failed field sobriety tests during a traffic stop in Atlanta that landed him a charge of driving under the influence, according to a police report.

A DeKalb County police officer wrote in the report that the former Super Bowl MVP and reigning ABC's "Dancing With the Stars" champion smelled strongly of alcohol. Ward, 35, reportedly told the officer he had two bottles of Corona beer three hours earlier.

A handheld breath test registered positive for alcohol, the report said.

- A lawyer said receiver Terrell Owens has paid the child support he owes, so the mother of the child is dropping her attempt to hold him in contempt of court. Melanie Paige Smith had filed court papers June 20 in Atlanta, saying Owens had refused to pay the full $5,000 a month he owes.

Her lawyer, Randall Kessler , filed papers to dismiss the request Owens be held in contempt.

- A California deputy shot and killed a former running back for the Cincinnati Bengals in front of a convenience store in Bakersfield after he allegedly hit an officer with a bag holding two cans of beer Sunday.

David Lee "Deacon" Turner , 56, played with the Bengals from 1978 to 1980. Court records show an arrest history stretching back to 1986.

</doc>
