<doc^docid="www.washingtonpost.com.19837.txt"^date="20110714">
But it's not clear whether Nelson's decision will bring the lockout to an immediate end. The NFL asked Nelson late Monday night for a stay of the injunction. It was not clear when she would rule on that. If she rejects it, the league would go to a federal appeals court.
Sources on both sides of the dispute said the players' side believed Nelson's ruling meant the free agent market technically was open Monday night, although the players' side seemed willing to give the NFL a short amount of time to establish free agency rules. The league believed the free agent market would not open before a decision on a stay of the injunction. Several people on the players' side of the dispute said they expected some players to show up for work Tuesday at teams' facilities. Teams were advised by the league to allow players who show up to enter training facilities Tuesday, a source said.
The players "have made a strong showing that allowing the league to continue their `lockout' is presently inflicting and will continue to inflict irreparable harm upon them, particularly when weighed against the lack of any real injury that would be imposed on the NFL by issuing the preliminary injunction. The public interest favors the enforcement of the antitrust laws and their underlying pro-competition policy," Nelson wrote in her 89-page decision.
James Quinn, an attorney for the players, called Nelson's ruling "a victory for the players and a victory for the fans. Hopefully we can get the players back to playing and the fans back to watching."
Quinn also said in a telephone interview that "we're obviously very pleased with the ruling. We're not really surprised, because we think it's consistent with all the prior case law and all the prior rulings. We think this will be very difficult to overturn on appeal because it's very well reasoned and very well thought through."
The NFL issued a written statement that said: "We will promptly seek a stay from Judge Nelson pending an expedited appeal to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. We believe that federal law bars injunctions in labor disputes. We are confident that the Eighth Circuit will agree. But we also believe that this dispute will inevitably end with a collective bargaining agreement, which would be in the best interests of players, clubs and fans. We can reach a fair agreement only if we continue negotiations toward that goal."
Under the lockout, players are barred from NFL facilities, teams are prohibited from signing or trading players and contact between coaches and players is precluded. The sport's drug-testing program is not in effect and agents are unregulated.
</doc>
